{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Garamond;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green64\blue64;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\vieww12000\viewh15120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\tx8640\tx10080\tx11520\tx12960\tx14400\tx15840\tx17280\tx18720\tx20160\tx21600\tx23040\tx24480\tx25920\tx27360\tx28800\tx30240\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Doug Engelbart:  I hope that you'll go along with this rather unusual setting, and the fact that I remain seated when I get introduced, and the fact that I'm going to come to you mostly through this medium here for the rest of the show.  I should tell you that I'm backed up by quite a staff of people between here and Menlo Park [sp?], where Stanford research is located some thirty miles south of here.  If everyone does their job well, it's all go very interesting, I think\cf2 .\cf0   [Laughs]\
\
The research program that I'm going to describe to you is quickly characterizable by saying:  If in your office, you as an intellectual worker, were supplied with a computer display backed up by a computer that was alive for you all day, and was instantly responsible, responsive [laughs], instantly responsive to every action you had, how much value could you derive from that?  Well, this basically characterizes what we've been pursuing for many years, and what we we call \cf3 The\cf0  Augmentive Human Intellect Research Center at Standford Research Institute.  \
\
Now, the whole session is going to be devoted to trying to describe and present to you the nature of this program, but unfortunately ... uh .. or fortunately, the products of this program, the technology of it, lends itself well to an interesting way to portray it for you.  So, we're going to do our best to 
\i\b0 show 
\i0\b you, rather than tell you about this program.  A very essential part of what we have developed technologically is what does come through this display to us.  And I'm going to start out without telling you very much about the program, and just run through a little bit of the action that this provides us.  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 So in my office I have a console like this, and there are 12 others that are computer supplies.  And we try now-a-days to do our daily work on here.  So this characterizes the way I could sit here and look at a clear blank piece of paper, that's the way I start many projects.  So with my system, I start and say "I'd like to load that in."  So, sorry about that.  So I'm putting \cf3 i\cf0 n an entity called a "statement."  And this is full of other entities called "words."  If I make some mistakes I can back up a little bit.  So I have a statement with some entities, words, and I can do some operations on these and copy a word, and that word might copy after itself.  In fact, a pair word I like to copy after itself.  And I can just do this a few times, and get a bit of material there.  And there are other materials, like "text."  I can copy from that point to that point.  It's copy.  So I can get myself some material on my blank piece of paper and say, "Well, this is going to be more important than it looks, so I'd like to set up a file."  So I tell the \cf3 mac\cf0 h\cf3 ine\cf0 , "Output to a file."  And it says, "Well, I need a name."  I'll give it a name\cf2 .\cf0   I'll say it's "sample file."  And I'll say "Please output it", and it did!  
\f1\b0 \
}